Welcome back everyone in this lecture.
We're going to discuss classification metrics.
We just learned that after a machine learning process is complete we all use performance metrics to
evaluate how well our model actually did.
Let's discuss classification metrics in more detail.
The key classification metrics we need to understand our accuracy recall precision and if one score
since we're going to be using Python and carers to report those metrics back the first we should understand
the reasoning behind these metrics and how they actually perform and work in the real world.
Typically in any classification task your model can really only achieve two results.
It's either correct and it's prediction or it's incorrect it's prediction Fortunately incorrect first
correct.
Expensive situations where you have multiple classes such as many types of hand-written digits.
But for the purposes of explaining these metrics we're going to imagine a binary classification situation
so binary meaning just two classes and we're actually going to perform this binary classification task
towards the end of the section of the course.
So in our example we're going to be attempting to predict if an image is a dog or cat.
Since this is a supervised learning process we're going to first fit or train a model on the training
data then we'll test the model on the testing data.
Once we have the model predictions from the X test data we compare it to the true y values.
So again we take our original images.
So those are all the label images of dogs and cats.
We split it took about 30 percent into a test set and 70 percent into a training set.
We're going to use the training set and the model is going to learn what features it should be looking
at when viewing an image to detect whether it's a dog or a cat.
Then we're going to feed it the images of the test data and then see how it predicts on the test data
and compare that to the labels that we already know on the test data.
So let's actually visualize this let's imagine that we just finished training our model on the training
data.
So we're going to do is we're going to take a test image from our X test essentially just a raw image.
And right now we're not actually going to tell the model what the label should be.
The model is going to try to predict that on its own.
So we already have the correct label from the Y test.
So the corresponding heart label is image.
But again we're not actually going to tell us model what the correct label is.
Instead we're just going to feed in the image and then it's going to spit out its prediction.
In this case it was correct.
It predicted that the image was a dog than what we do in order to evaluate our model.
If we just compare the correct label from my test to the predicted label that the trade model output
and this case we just check is dog equal to dog and compare that prediction correctly label.
So the train model that correct.
In this case however it is possible the train model may be misclassified this image as a cat.
So if the model says oh I predict that this is a cat we again take that prediction compare it to the
correct label.
And then we can see here that it was incorrect.
And essentially what we're doing is we're just summing up instances of when it was correct versus when
it was incorrect so we repeat this process for all the images in our X test data and at the end we're
going to have a count of correct matches and accounts of incorrect Massad matches.
And the key realization here we need to make is that in the real world not all incorrect or correct
matches hold equal value specifically in certain situations where you have really high stakes such as
classifying an image to see if it's a tumor or not.
And that's actually a common application of image classification.
You feed it pictures of moles and then you label some as cancerous and not cancerous and you see if
your machine learning model can accurate predict given a new image of someone a new mole on their skin
whether or not it's cancerous.
So we can see here that a certain values of an incorrect match for the correct match are going to hold
higher stakes because we don't want to accidentally tell someone that their mole is OK when it's actually
cancerous.
So that's where we come up with different metrics to view the different relationships between correct
versus incorrect labeling.
But first let's view our actual metrics understand what they represent and then we'll see them and how
they apply to a confusion matrix.
So first I was going to review the four metrics that we mentioned the first metric we mentioned was
accuracy and accuracy and classification problems is a number of correct predictions made by the model
divided by the total number of predictions.
So for example if the X test set was a hundred images in our model correctly predicted 80 images and
we have 80 out of 100 correctly predicted images divided by all the images.
So that's 0.8 or 80 percent accuracy.
And accuracy is useful when the target classes are well balanced so well balance would mean in our example
we have roughly the same amount of cat images as we have dog images.
Now accuracy is not a good choice with unbalanced classes.
So let's imagine a situation where we had ninety nine images of dogs and only one image of a cat and
that was our test data set.
Our model could simply be a very simple model that always outputs.
I think this is a dog regardless of what picture or information it sees.
If that was the case with this particular dataset if we were to perform the accuracy calculation.
Well there's only one instance of a cat.
So there's only one possible time that the model could be wrong.
So even if it was a really dumb model that just said I think this is a dog that it would still get ninety
nine percent accuracy on this particular unbalanced test dataset.
So that's why it's important the accuracy itself is not the complete story.
We have to look at other metrics like precision and recall in order to understand how it's performing.
On the other unbalanced class.
So again what we want to do is understand recall and precision not just accuracy recall is the ability
of a model to find all the relevant cases within that data set.
So the precise definition the best medical definition of recall is the number of true positives divided
by the number of true positives plus the number of false negatives.
And again the stability of a model to find all the relevant cases of Finot dataset
precision is the ability of a classification model to identify only the relevant data points.
So the way we calculate this is precision is defined as the number of true positives divided by the
number of true positives plus the number of false positives so often you have a tradeoff between recall
and precision while recall expresses the ability to find all relevant instances in a data set precision
expresses the proportion of the data points our model says was relevant versus when they were actually
were relevant.
And EF 1 score is a way we can actually combine and report back.
This relationship between precision and recall.
So in cases where we want to find some sort of optimal blend of precision and recall we can combine
the two metrics using what is called the EF 1 score the one score is the harmonic mean of precision
and recall taking both metrics into account and the following equation.
So see if one score is equal to two times position times recall.
Divide by precision plus recall notice we're not just taking the average of the EF 1 score.
And the reason we take this kind of more specific harmonic mean instead of just a normal mean is because
a simple average wouldn't work because it wouldn't punish extreme values.
So what I mean by that is let's imagine we create a classifier that has a perfect precision of one point
zero.
However the recall is horrible and it actually has 0.0 recall that would mean if you were just to take
a simple average it would equal 0.5.
But if you apply that the 1.0 precision and the recall of 0.0 to the harmonic mean then you're going
to have one time zero the top essentially making your EF 1 score 0.
So it's going to punish a very unbalanced recall or a very unbalanced precision.
And I really think the confusion matrix helps people understand recall precision because accuracy on
its own it's pretty straightforward.
Understand but until you view a confusion matrix then you kind of don't really get precision or recall
in my opinion so let's review a confusion matrix for a situation where we're performing classification.
So this is what a confusion matrix looks like.
We have some sort of condition or trying to check for maybe we're trying to check to see if a mole is
cancers or not using the image that it's fed into the model.
Or maybe it's a simple condition whether or not an image is a dog.
So we have these true conditions on the over here on the left hand side of condition positive condition
negative.
And then we have the predicted condition and this will eventually lead you to have true positives true
negatives and false positives and false negatives.
Otherwise known as type 1 errors and type 2 errors specifically in the medical field.
That's a really common way of specifying that particular error and using those for values of true positive
false negative false positive and negative.
You can calculate a wide variety of statistics.
So if you expand this you can check out that we have accuracy.
We have our phos discovery rate negative predictive value recall and so on.
So there's tons of the metrics can get off this confusion make tricks but we're really only concerned
with precision recall and accuracy.
And then once we have precision recall we can then calculate the EF 1 score.
So the main point to remember here is that with the confusion matrix and the various calculated metrics
is that they're all fundamentally different ways of comparing the predicted values versus the true values
and what constitutes good metrics such as What's a good precision or what's a good recall or what's
a good accuracy really depends on the specific situation.
So let's look at a much simpler confusion matrix.
And I think this will also help us understand precision recalled better.
So let's imagine that we're testing for a disease and here we have 165 total patients and out of 165
maybe we're taking images of their moles and seeing whether or not they have cancer.
And for these specific 165 patients we actually already know whether or not they have cancer.
We're training our model and testing the results.
So out of these 165 patients if we're testing for Zeese actually some of them don't have the disease
and then some of them do have disease and then we're going to run those images through a model to have
them predict or have the model predict whether or not these patients have the disease.
So no.
Or a negative test is going to be called a false or zero.
And yes a positive test is going to be equal to true or one.
So we have a little confusion matrix here and it is the result of it being run on some test data.
So the basic terminology we have here are true positives true negatives false positives and false negatives.
So again we have this test data of sixty five patients and then we ran their images of let's say their
moles on our actual training model and then we reported back whether or not we think they have the cancer
or some sort of condition.
So here are two negatives.
That means that the patient did not have cancer.
And our model predicted that they do not have cancer otherwise a true negative.
So true negatives here we have equal to 50 then we have our false positives.
That means that the patient doesn't actually have cancer.
However the model when it saw the image of the mole predicted that the patient did have cancer.
So that's a false positive.
It's falsely saying that I think it's positive for cancer.
Then we have the patience that actually do have some sort of cancer and the cancerous mole on their
skin.
And the actual model predicted no that's a false negative.
So it's falsely saying they're negative for cancer.
Then we have the patients that again actually do have cancer.
And the model correctly predicts that they do have cancer.
That's a true positive.
So we can see real true positives true negatives false positives and false negatives.
So the accuracy.
Remember that's just overall asking how often is the model correct.
So you have two positives plus true negatives over the total.
So our model here on this test set of 165 patients was 91 percent accurate.
Then there's other metrics you can calculate such as the misclassification rate or the error rate.
Overall how often is the model wrong.
It's essentially the reverse of the accuracy.
So it's false positives plus false negatives divided by the total or 9 percent and that error rate is
something you see reported as you perform Karris.
So keep in mind in certain situations it's going to be really important to understand your false negatives
and your false positives.
For example here we have the kind of high stakes problem where we're trying to tell patients whether
or not they have a cancer or a small base off the image of their mole.
That means we really want to try our best to reduce false negatives because a false negative is essentially
meaning that this person does have cancer.
But our model is telling them not to worry.
They don't have cancer.
So that's an extremely dangerous position to put someone in.
So you may want to trade off your precision versus your recall in order to help minimize your false
negatives.
Now in that sort of same situation false positives are also not really great because you know you're
telling someone that doesn't have cancer that they do have cancer.
But usually in the real world there's further tests you can do in order to now test these people that
have false positives.
Maybe the next that is an actual biopsy of their mole.
But again we really want to try to reduce false negatives in that sort of high stakes situation because
we don't want someone walking away from our clinic thinking they're OK when in reality they are not
OK.
So keep that in mind.
Different situations call for different importance on different metrics.
In that case everything is pretty low stakes because we're just dealing with images of cats and dogs
not something as important as detecting cancer.
All right.
If you're still a little confused on the confusion matrix no pun intended.
It's no problem.
You can go ahead and check out the Wikipedia page for it.
It has that diagram that we saw earlier as well as all the formulas for all the metrics and you can
check out the different resource links I provided for you in this lecture for more breakdowns on precision
versus recall versus accuracy.
And throughout this training usually we're going to be doing is just printing out the metrics so we'll
just be able to print out a classification report that prints out metrics such as accuracy precision.
Recall an EF 1 score.
OK let's go ahead continue.
But I understand the basics of deep learning.